Good afternoon.
Good afternoon. Good.
Well, well, let's let us, um, introduce ourselves first.
I'm Greg O'Connor, the chair of the committee, uh,
and, uh, labor and p and I.
How are you? And
Hello from, um, I'm a MP from the Greens
and based in Queens Church.
So thank you for being here.
M Greg Fleming. I'm, uh, the national MP for Mongo here,
which is basically One Tree Hill Orland.
Hello, I am Paolo Garcia
and the National MP for Newly Cool, cool
West. Alright,
well look, thank you very much and thank you.
Your patience. Um, yeah, explain to you, we, um, we have
to wait and we're all determined by
what time our parliament, uh, yeah.
Christian time finishes, so that's cool.
Um, alright, are you ready to go
or are you waiting for someone to come in?
So all here Good.
So if everyone's ready to go, we'll get, get underway.
So 10 minutes, um, take your petition as having been read.
Yes. Um, and then we'll, um,
and hopefully leave time for questioning,
but certainly pleased to hear from you.
Wonderful, thank you.
So, uh, so just, uh, a couple of concerns.
So obviously the, um, the petition is obviously regarding,
um, which obviously holds files
about obviously children at state care at the time.
Um, one of my concerns here is, um,
once that child has exited state care
and is no longer for the state, um,
and obviously an adult, I'm concerned about how information
is still stored, um, outside its, um, intended purpose,
which is under principle nine of the privacy laws
2020, and also sensitive information.
So basically I'm just concerned that
the level of storing information past its intended purpose,
um, where obviously if you've exit it state,
you're not gonna go back into state through child,
you the family, um, as an adult.
So I would deem that as being
excessive storage basically.
And it compromises the fact of how
that storage is being stored through the systems itself.
Who can access those, um, those reports
or even any of the information, um, about the child
that was through state care.
Now I'm also gonna just mention about the 1 31 a report,
which is another point here, which is obviously courts,
family courts can also administer
and ask for that report initially through Ang tam, um,
which is lawful in its own sense
because it is within law for courts to be able to,
at the stage request a 1 31 a report, which
from my knowledge
and also from correspondence between courts
and tki, uh, is that
those reports are then done from TKI itself,
but it's not explained who is actually accessing
and how many individual parties are involved with collecting
that information directly for the courts.
So with the courts itself, uh, like I mentioned, they, they,
they have the right to do so,
and that can be, uh, redacted, like reduced in the way of
how much of the information you can see now.
You could see it on a four paper
and you could question the fact of is that legitimate too?
Um, because it's on a four, it's not on a proper letterhead
as well when you're seeing a copy.
So the transparency with the involvement there, um, seems
restricted and obviously you'd want to have, um,
if it's information about yourself, you would obviously feel
that, you know, there it would be an open book
with the process there to involve you, um, fairly
through that process too.
Um, now in saying that about the 1 31 a report,
even though that is lawful, um, the information
that Orang tamari themselves, um, disclose about
who has accessed your record, um, initially, uh,
is the fact that, um,
because obviously the data is stored through Ang Tam.
Now when OT Tiki can state the fact that
that information is the court's information
through the 1 31 a report, um,
I put into question then why is it stored
through Ang tamari if it's no longer there
or any of the information's properly there property.
Um, so I put into questions yes,
and why if that information can be without
why the information of who accesses those files of the names
of the independent people that are processing that
through ordering itself is restricting the fact of
that process of a transparent process
of who's accessing your information.
So it does put in question about how,
um, trustworthy for individuals not just, you know,
for myself, but for, you know, other people out there
that are experiencing maybe, uh, information issues there.
Um, and I just, I just honestly feel
that, um, it seems to be restricted
with my information or the information for an individual.
So I, I'm kind of lost for why
the process is so it feels hidden rather than open.
And that restricts
and can create a level
of distrust within the organization itself.
Um, because even with that report, I'm not asking
for information about any other person apart from
what is relevant to myself.
And obviously as we all would know in fairness
that the courts is, um, you know, they, they look
for transparency and, and,
and engagement in the process,
which is obviously a really important factor there
because, um, once you close those avenues
with this process, um,
it makes the individual feel like they're also being
victimized as well.
So the, the thing here is,
or have shown, um, unfortunately, um,
uh, a process that to me has been restricted, um,
about the names of the individuals, like for, for myself
as such, you know, with, um, the information, uh,
that they're obviously not just giving
to the cause about myself,
but I couldn't, another thing as well, sorry,
I'm just gonna go to something else.
I noticed that Ang also have mentioned, um,
to me that, uh, that, sorry, I'm just trying to find
where I've put this.
Um, take your time, but thank you.
So the fact that it's sensitive information, um,
for starters about the child
or the individual that had been through state care, um,
that information should be fairly, um,
disposed of, I feel after a period of time.
Um, I am aware that also, um,
'cause another thing I was looking at is
how data records are deleted, um,
based on an individual when an individual passes
or is deceased as well.
And from what I've come across as, uh, something through,
uh, I think it was the Privacy Commissioner, um, online
and that was stating something around 20 years.
Um, but the thing is that could lead to Revictimization
as well with, um, keeping the information there
where it could affect other family members if
that was the case as well.
So those are a few of the concerns I have, especially
regarding information.
Um, I've got,
I just feel that it's also, you know, if, if you're going
through that stage, um,
and they're restricting that, um, I just, yeah,
I strongly just feel it's that
that could be re-victimizing as well.
And I got told the reason why they hold and collect
and keep that storage of information
and so an individual can, um, directly, um,
ask for that information.
Um, but I also would like to say that, that that's
what they say it is.
But what's to say that it's not to revictimize someone
that's been through state as a child that is an adult
that has children to see statistically
and to keep a record based on the individual
to see if they are actually, um,
having their children go through state care.
And it should not be, it's a privilege to have
my information or an individual's
information really stored there.
Um, uh,
and being a first party, I class myself as a first party
being a second party, um,
and the courts being a third party,
but how many other parties are involved with this process?
So the trust gets lost through a whole RAF of things.
And I've had, I've had a lot of issues with things, um,
through auto activity with audio release as well.
There was a, um, thing, uh, that I also asked about
as well about release of information through audio.
Um, they had sent me a notification stating that, um,
they didn't know how to do it initially.
Um, this is two years ago, this correspondence,
but that's an operational matter
and if you're not sure of something,
you'd go see the relevant information, uh,
through your management team, um,
and find solutions through this process.
So I do, you know,
and I've had, I've had a real poor service with,
I've actually lost a lot of trust in them.
Um, I made accusations about abuse
and that that I was towards them as well.
Um, and it was proven that I hadn't said anything
of the nature, but again, we've got this level
of, um, where it's okay for another adult
to apologize for another adult's poor performance.
Now I wouldn't have my son have his friend come
and apologize, um, for his behavior.
And it just seems like what principles are we teaching
if we are saying about children and how we look at adults
and, and that nature too.
So those are a few few of the issues I've, I've had, um,
my experiences with, um,
which is unfortunate.
I know there's really good social workers out there.
I know there's a lot of, um, really good people
that actually strive, um, to, to do the best
for the welfare of children.
I, I do recognize and acknowledge that.
Um, but obviously just my experiences I've, I've,
I feel like I've, um, experienced, um, a level
of hurt with the process
and certain things here with information.
Um, and that is one reason when you try to engage
with the services, you go through a process, you, you know,
you, you try to engage with even the chief executive, you go
through stages where you would engage with, um, say,
you know, if there's a complaint of any nature, which I've,
that's another thing, a complaint process, which I've
Gone through. Can, can,
can I just, um, sorry, we, I just, we were sort
of gonna run outta time quickly, but Yes.
The, just, I don't wanna start
and look clearly, you know, you've got issues with tki,
which they, there is a probably, you know,
and you probably sounds like you made,
might have made some complaints and dealing with that.
Yes. What, what you've really asked come here and what I've,
and tell me I'm wrong, is that really the fact
that your information is remains, is that,
would it be fair to say that the main issue you want
this committee to consider is that and Yes.
And can I surmise that yourself, you were in state care.
Yes. So I so don't, don't, I mean, I shouldn't be,
but if, so any individual in state care probably shouldn't
have asked that, but that's okay.
Any individual in state care Yes.
The right to actually have the fact
that they were ever in state care that information
to be removed is that Yes.
Really. 'cause that's what I saw as the real nub
of the issue here.
And that's something that we can probably deal with here
and, and the time we have available.
I wonder whether we can maybe just stick with
that part of it.
Yes. Because we are not really in a position to deal
with the complaints against the performance of our own.
Can, can you understand what I'm saying? I I do. Yes.
I'm not brushing them off in any way,
but I'm just saying the issue is that I thought that you,
you felt, or that any individual who's been in state accused
to have the right to have that information removed
or gathered, so it's never available.
That's right. And perhaps so, so I've summed that, right.
So maybe the committee can have a bit
of discussion on that point.
Yeah, certainly without any diminishing
any of the other stuff that's happened to you.
But just that's the sort of stuff that we
as a petitions committee can probably deal
with rather than the performance issues.
Thank you. Is that fair?
Because I certainly don't wanna
be putting words in your mouth.
That is, that is fair. Yes. Alright.
Okay. Thank you Caroline.
Yeah, thank you Carl for being here in person,
person today and for telling us about, you know,
what's really important to you, um, through your experiences
and, you know, as an adult who wants
to have some autonomy over information about themselves.
I am interested to know, um,
if you have come across anyone else who has, um,
the similar, um, like, uh,
similar thoughts to you about, about this.
Because I know just going into the Royal Commission
of Inquiry, a lot of work has been done around some
of these recommendations around the best practice
of data collection and record keeping and, and,
and information sharing as well
because that's come out of, um, survivors of abuse and care
and seeing that there were issues with these,
these things, um, historically.
So just wondering, do you have you,
and it's okay if you haven't,
but do you know anyone else who's in a similar situation
with as you who would also like this to happen? Yeah,
I would. I've
Been a foster here too. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Thank you for being here as well. Yeah.
Oh, sorry. Now I didn't introduce Pardon?
So I just, would you like to introduce yourself?
Oh, um, I'm, I'm Tim Snowden. Tim thanks to Yep. Sorry.
I should have, uh, given the opportunity to do that.
That, thanks Tim. Okay.
Well, so just on the issue then of the right to, what,
what's your main, would you give us the main reason why you
should have that right, to have
that information unavailable?
Never. It's, it's gone.
It's that that's removed so no one will ever, despite,
without talking about who should be able to access,
but it shouldn't be able to be there
to be accessed is probably what we're hearing.
Is that right? Mm-hmm. That's right.
What's the main reason for that? Is that
Main reason is, um, the experience of going through,
putting in, um, information, uh,
requests obviously about whose access, uh,
information through their data systems there at OT putting
it to, and um, basically I'm just, yeah,
it's just like I've gone through that process there
and it's just, it's just, yeah, I'm over the it
with, with the process
because I've gone through trying to get the information
and it feels like, can I
Just, when you say you're trying to get the information,
you mean you're trying to understand
what information they hold about you?
That's correct. So they've disclosed
or given me, um, information about Myself's first daycare.
But the thing is also with the report, the 1 31 a report,
which is court's reports through family court as well.
Um, they're saying it's the court's property. Right.
And my concern is that yes, the courts have the right,
there is legislation that allows courts
'cause the courts are not subject to privacy.
Yeah. As I'm aware. And the,
obviously the concern is even though they're not allowed
to give that report,
'cause the courts, uh,
and ownership of that report once transitioned from
Ari's report as such that's been undertaken.
I'm asking who's, how many people are accessing Yeah.
My personal information. Right.
And information that's sensitive to undertake the report.
Because the thing is, when you're going before the courts
and they're putting what I would class as a damning type
of correspondence in the report, it needs to be justified
as, as in a fair thing and put like employment, you know.
So are you wanting, sorry, just are you just,
'cause I'm, I'm, I'm, I think I'm,
I think I'm getting clear.
So are you wanting the, the, are you,
are you wanting a clear explanation to you of
what information is held
and by whom so that you are essentially, uh, in, in,
in full knowledge of personal data about you?
Or are you wanting them as an
to stop holding information about you?
Well, basically overall I'd like
to have all the information because obviously so
The latter, you'd like them not
to hold any information about you.
That's right. All my sensitive information
because obviously I'm not gonna go back through state care.
Okay. Do you, so just, um, the, the obviously I,
I presume, have you seen,
you've seen the written response from TKI saying, well,
well anyway, one of the, one of the, whether it was them
or someone else, obviously, obviously one of the,
the big arguments is that if there is to be any kind of, um,
inquiry, um, review recompense study down the track,
it depends on that data being there.
But you, you don't think that that's sufficient reason for
that data to be held about yourself?
I don't believe the data should be stored there
because I mean, like we could, we could look at the fact
of why's the data being stored
because I mean, like medical records,
we could look at the fact of why is it not removed for that.
But the intent, the, the thing with that sort of, um,
scenario is you may be required to go back for medical
or have doctors or anything like that.
Sure. Whereas once you've exited state care. Yeah,
No, it's just purely in the case of, so for example,
we've obviously just had the, the very painful
but necessary review of the person's state care.
None of that would've been available.
None of that would've been, well, very little of
that would've been possible had we not had access to data.
Uh, yes, I can see that. Can I
Just ask my clarifying question?
Um, just thank you again. Thank you.
Um, we, you're obviously got us very interested in this
and really wanting to understand.
Um, so is there any like,
'cause maybe what I'm hearing is it's actually
not knowing who has access to your, um, your
information that is really worrying for you.
Is that a, is would that
Be true?
Uh, partly,
but it's, it's, I I guess so
because it's also how many people are getting
to view that information.
Yeah. And it's transitioned through that process.
So are you having two people accessing and doing report
or accessing and looking at that information?
Um, is it, is data actually, is
tiki's data stored in one type of area?
Is it accessible through, um,
like regions independently from there?
Or is long term people that have exited stake with
that data held in a separate location
or in my area for that information as well?
Uh, it's obviously something that I've so sourcing
to find out information for. So
If you had the reassurance that let's say we recommend
that, that no one should access any of
that information without your consent, would
that give you the, so if you could have the, the reassurance
that if anyone wanted to access your information
that you had to give consent, would that give you the,
would that give you the comfort,
Um, So that no, nobody essentially no one gets
to access your information, uh,
or about anything about you without your consent?
Would, would that, would that give you
the reassurance you're looking for
But then that would also know, uh,
because of the concern
that the data is still being stored
past its intent, purpose?
Sure. Which not only for privacy information,
but sensitive information as well.
That's still right. Still there.
So that, that is my key focuses on concerns.
Okay. Well look, I think that's good.
I mean, and that's o obviously thanks
for your courage coming here because I know
that's obviously something that's, uh, thank you.
The, the mere fact that you are protecting
that personal information, want to protect it shows Yes.
It's probably quite traumatic for you
to come here today and have to Yeah.
Talk about it publicly. So thank you.
Can I just say thank you what we're gonna hear from AKI now.
Um, and um, we will then look and
after that we discuss and see whether we need
to know more about this and then we'll do a report
and a recommendation back to parliament on this.
Um, if we need any more information from you
or anyone else, we can always come back to you.
Um, look, thank you very much.
I say really, and thank you for your courage. Thank you.
'cause I'm sure that you are speaking on behalf of, of a lot
of other people who probably have been, you know,
with all the recent publicity around the whole abuse
and care inquiry.
Yes. And probably been reactivated a lot of their feelings.
So thank you. On their behalf as well. That's great. You've
Done really well. Thank you very
much. Thank you very much.
You're welcome to remain, um,
here while we here from Orang.
That's wonderful. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Alright, welcome
Lon and uh, Edon Levine.
Levina. And she Okay. Thank you.
Well, um, you've heard our introductions.
Um, looking forward to hearing from you.
How would you like us to proceed? Well,
Okay, well if you, maybe if you could you, you've sat
through perhaps you could address
maybe some of the issues you heard.
Sure, sure.
Um, and then any report
or any position that you sort of speaking
and again, kind of thank you for coming here.
I know initially, um, we didn't feel like
you could add much more than your paper,
but sometimes as you see with the committee, it's useful
for us to actually have, um, you know, you
to have heard the same thing as us
and here, um, real time if you like. Absolutely.
So that's why we, and it was good
to hear directly from Carl.
Yeah, I think, I think all round.
I think we can, uh, the white wall
of our eyes is always a good thing.
So look, absolutely. Thank
You. So I can
touch on a couple of points
that I think are pertinent.
So I think the first one was around
who has access to information.
So the information, uh, that Carl was referring
to is held on a system called Cyrus,
which is our case management system.
So a social worker will record their notes, um,
usually primarily for assessing care
and protection for children and young people
and support the Han numbers.
So that uh, case management system when uh, a child is uh,
requiring uh, support from Ang tam will be accessed
by a social worker and other people in the site.
When somebody makes a request for their information
through our customer information request team,
it's logged in an either an online form
of via telephone request
and it will be passed to one
of our customer information request assessors.
So the assessor will call the person
and say, what kind of information are you looking for?
Because sometimes our files can be very large
and they're also family files.
So it would contain information for a variety of family
members and other people involved in the care of
that young person or child.
The assessor will talk to the customer
and say, what kind of information are you interested in?
They will retrieve the file
and it will either come in a hard copy if it is a file from
free eighties,
Can I just stop you? Presumably
there's a triage system as to
who can request it in the first place?
Absolutely. So we verify the requester
to see if they have been.
So that's the first step.
The requester will be verified
to see if we have any information
about them on our system. Oh,
So you're talking it would be invariably the individual,
Always the individual, The individual
requesting their own information. So I just need to
Clarify. That's
absolutely fine. Sorry if that wasn't clear. So the
Individual, so this will, so this will only
what the system you're talking about is a system
where an individual like car is requesting Yes.
His or her own information.
Yes. And then the assessor will talk to that individual,
confirm who they are and verify by looking through the file
and asking pertinent questions whether
that information is for that person.
So there is a confirmation process. Yeah, yeah.
So then the assessor will go through that file
and if they say there was a particular piece of information
that person was looking for, they will look for that,
assess it and redact information
that's not about the person requesting
and then provide that information to the requester.
Sometimes people want the entirety of their file
and that's also possible.
So we'll work with the person to give them that information
as to who has access during that process.
The assessor, because the files can often be quite
unwieldy in nature because they are often
file notes and case notes.
They may need to talk to a capability coach
who will help them with their assessment to check
that the right information is being released. Can
You hear this back?
Yes. Sorry, I've got just checking.
Um, so that would be, who would access the file?
It would be the individual assessor
and sometimes the capability coach to check
that the right information is being released.
So I think that was the first question about
who would access files.
Mm-hmm. Um,
the other part, okay,
Just, just a question there.
Okay. If often these files will oftenly be,
there'll be other people involved in that file,
absolute be father, family members, um, that
On average there's around 20, a minimum
of 20 people's information in any one person's file.
It could be staff members from orang tam,
it could be caregivers, it could be family members,
it could be support services,
Chair questions.
Um, may I ask, uh, if each of those 20 persons in one file
need to be asked if the provisioning of that information
is able to be given?
So we only release the information
to the individual about their own information.
So if there is information about other people, all of
that information is redacted, which can make it quite hard
for people to read a file
because there will be certain parts that,
so it is very complicated, um, process.
But we have to abide by the privacy Act, which
of course allows a private individual
to access their information
but not the information private to any other individual.
Okay. And that's where it can be very difficult.
So some work that we've been doing alongside the Royal
Commission is to try
and find ways
to explain the missing information on why
it's not contained.
Mm. Because it can be very difficult for people
to read a file when chunks are not there.
Yeah, sure. Yeah.
So in the case of,
oh sorry Carl if you don't mind me an example, if he was
to go and get what all his personal information removed,
the file wouldn't be removed,
you couldn't, so there'd be no,
No, There's not one file pertaining
or there would be one file pertaining to, it
Could be several files depending on when Carl went
through the state care system.
And it could be several files if an individual had been
through a youth justice system.
So they're not all in the same, you know, we'd have
to gather as much as we can from various different sources.
Sorry, I was just gonna No,
actually you carry on and then I'll ask at the end.
Okay. So I think there were just two other things.
If um, Carl wants to uh, contact us
and say, I want
to be informed about anybody accessing my file,
we can absolutely do that.
So we do that for other people.
Um, I can't see any reason
for anybody accessing a previous person's file
because they would need a business reason under our code
of conduct as to why anybody would access a file.
So I, I can't see a reason for accessing files.
We don't routinely go in and look at files
unless there is a business reason for doing so.
Can, can you gimme an example of a business reason,
Um, example.
So if a court had requested a file,
then we will provide it to a court.
Um, I can't think of any other business reasons as
to why we would be going into historic files.
No. Only if there was a claim being made through, um, yeah.
Right. Okay. And that would be initiated
by the person making the claim?
Sure.
Um, I think that that's the crux of Carl's concern.
Uh, and that to provide the file to himself
or to the courts, there are, there may be a number of people
going through it to provide the file.
Yeah. And, and that's the security of that
I can imagine is quite concerning.
Yes, I can understand that as well.
'cause it's power's life story
and his history, it's his personal journey.
It is not a file of information,
it's somebody's personal life story. Yeah. So
Can you tell us what are the implications of,
if Carl was able to say, I want that period of my life never
to be recorded, which is sort of what Yes.
Part of what his request was is that I don't want it ever
to be known that I was in state care.
Yes. That that was the, what are the implications for that?
So currently we're unable to do that.
So the chief archivist from archives New Zealand has placed
a moratorium on any disposal of any care records, uh, due
to the Royal Commission.
So the chief archivist, uh, conducted a survey
or public consultation of how long care records,
how long the public think care records should be
retained. And they're, you,
They're working through that analysis, um, currently.
So when we hear back from the chief archivist
and get some recommendations,
then we can embark on our own disposable authority, um,
take on board those recommendations and,
and put from, um, care experience persons
and including yourself, Carl.
Um, so I've already written notes down about, um,
and then we can consider what, what
that disposal might look like.
But we do need the authority of the chief archivist to that.
Okay. And so, um, Carl mentioned, um, about
wanting to access a file that was not in the system
but in the court system you might not know,
but if you do, do you know how he could access that file?
So actually I, I do.
So it used to be, uh, understanding
that the court documents were the property
or of the judge
who made the judgment in that court document.
But there was a high court brawling, I'm just referring
to my notes in August last year, where the judge, um,
has ruled that we can provide access to court documents.
They would be rejected in the same way, um,
as any other file.
Um, and so we've been working
to change our process at Ang tam so that we can,
if we find a court document within a file,
we are able to release it.
I think we've seen it as quite a positive change, um,
because it will just allow people to gain more access
around their, their story.
So that's been a very recent change
from a high court ruling.
So previously restricted court documents,
we were on the understanding that we were unable
to release them, but now there has been this ruling
that we can release them,
but only for adults, not for children under 18.
Right. Yeah.
Alright, any other questions?
Well look, thank you.
Um, so you probably saw we've gone well over time,
but um, it's a, it's one of these topics
that should never be time restricted, so
Absolutely. Yeah.
Um, we do have to keep moving because we do have others.
Very good. But that's, uh, take your time.
Yeah, I think you, I think this is um, intriguing to, so
as we will now go,
unless you want to sort of comment,
I'll just, did you wanna make a brief comment?
Anything you've heard now? Uh,
Probably Or Okay.
I'll just kind of relay that information,
stick it in and sort of, yeah. See
Very wise it's a shame there.
Aren a few more people like you around,
they stay outta trouble.
We're more considered. And
Carl, you know, you can watch it again if you go onto the
Parliament tv, it will be there
And then we will Be, we're in touch.
So.
Alright. Look, thank you very much.
Very much appreciate it. Thank you everyone again.
Thank you for coming along.
Uh, it's uh, we all agree it's, uh,
much better when we're all here.
See you guys. Thank you. Thank you Tim.